Chaos@Essay - Miha

The context
With the advancement of technology, everyone relies on devices to complete their own tasks, especially writing a paper for a certain class. However, sometimes we encounter technical issues like the crashing of a computer where we lose our data or random stuff that a computer does while students are trying to write their essay in peace. The poor Sisyphus himself had to keep pushing the boulder repeatedly until his death. Chaos@Essay has been mainly inspired by the tale of Sisyphus (without the boulder part) that reflects the struggles that students need to go through to graduate. From writing essays, to projects and presentations, students need to complete all of these tasks. However, the lives of students gets much more complicated when they have a teacher that plans his lessons or tasks horribly.

A simulation?
Chaos@Essay is a simulation where a teacher gives a random essay question and the user needs to write on a digital loose-leaf sheet. However, because the teacher is extremely disorganized, the question keeps changing every 10 seconds! Yikes.How can the student write something in 10 seconds!? Technically that wouldn't be possible but sometimes students need to deal with horrible teachers in many ways such as this one. Having a disorganized teacher is not enough, but the software where the user writes his essay is broken. Basically, after the user writes 50 characters on the paper, the software deletes slowly what the user has written so far. Therefore, the user needs to start all over again because it will keep deleting the text (Based on the Sisyphus concept). However, there are two paths that students can choose from: Be a good student that follows the teacher’s instructions while suffering, or go crazy and paint all over your essay. Hence, this simulation allows you to choose if you either want to be good or drop the paint and then hide your crimes using the liquid paper.

Design concept
For this project, I wanted to make a simulation that looks clean and straightforward without too much colour. As a designer, I tend to use too many colours and forgets the beauty of monochromatic and how elegant it can look. Therefore, I decided to use the font called “courrier” to give a “typewriter” effect in order to show that everything happens on the computer even though you see a paper on screen. Why do you see a paper on screen? The reason for that was because I wanted to merge the traditional (paper) with the digital (textarea). Therefore, the area where the user writes is basically a text area that uses the loose-leaf sheet background texture. Hence, it gives the illusion that the user is writing on a piece of paper but on the computer because these days, we write more on the computer than on a paper. To wrap it up, the paint and liquid paper have been added because as mentioned above, it gives the choice to a student to either be good or bad. If they decide to be bad, they will drop paint onto their essay and a troll music will start. However, if they want to go back being good students, the liquid paper will allow them to fully erase the paint and continue writing as if they were good from the beginning.
