DoomTube - Miha

The Context:
DoomTube is a simulation inspired from Youtube. However, the concept is not as bright as the “you” from Youtube but rather dooming. An interesting concept from Bridle’s essay was when he explained that there are many bad videos on Youtube, especially the ones meant for children. Hence, children are exposed to many knockoffs of the original nursery rhymes or animation that can be violent, creepy or sometimes sexual. This is quite disturbing but there’s not only this: Youtube and Google use a certain system that allows them to feed off these videos to earn revenue by showing to children these sort of videos. The author does explain that Youtube and Google do not directly participate in these crimes but they still do not want to take responsibility for what’s happening onto their own platform. To me, that lack of responsibility is the same as doing the crime. How can big corporations like Youtube and Google not want to act when children’s lives and education are put at stake? This is unacceptable.

The project:
Therefore, for my second project I wanted to roast Youtube and perhaps show some sort of reality using a card game. DoomTube is a card game based on the hidden reality that Youtube does not show. The player has 12 identical red cards which represent innocence (Children think that everything looks okay, the same). Each card has a number on it. Once the user is ready to play, he will say “go with” and then the number that he wants. Because this game has an API called Annyang which will detect words, the card will flip depending on the number of the card that the user wants. For people that Annyang might not work, they can just click on the cards. Once the card has been flipped, he will see a video which could be considered either as good or bad. If it's bad, a certain voice that says “No Mercy” will activate to showcase that Youtube only cares for profit which is when that concept of innocence will disappear. Once activated, the score at the top will go up by 1 million every time that the user gets a bad card which shows the monstrous amount of profit that Youtube or Google makes of off children’s videos. However, if the user falls on a good video, the profit will drop to 0 because they are seen as legit videos (only a few).

The Design:
Finally, the design of the simulation is simple because I wanted to make it look that way. I didn't want any fancy effects because it would break the purpose of it. As viewers, we are not aware that Youtube uses that sort of system so everything is hidden. That is why I decided to go with a darker background to show that everything is hidden and that people can’t have access to that kind of information. The card flipping effect is to show that everything looks fine and innocent but 9 out of 12 are not, so you need to use some sort of judgement and decide if that video is wrong or not. For the cards, I decided to go with the same red that Youtube uses in their branding to make it look like their platform.
